Great and peace to you from God our Father and our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, our text for today is the Psalm that is appointed for this day, Psalm 24.
The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein, for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers.
Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord?
And who shall stand in the holy place?
He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully.
He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob.
Lift up your heads, O Gaison, be lifted up, O ancient doors that the King of glory may come in.
Who is this King of glory?
The Lord, strong and mighty.
The Lord, mighty and battle.
Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in.
Who is this King of glory?
The Lord of hosts.
He is the King of glory.
This is our text.
Or over in Him.
Based on this very psalm, lift up your heads, o ye mighty gates behold, the King of glory waits, the King of kings is drawing near.
The Savior of the world is here.
Just a few moments ago Pastor Mike talked about getting ready and preparing, and that's what we've been talking about all Adventist season, getting ready, ready to celebrate the birth of Christ.
And as we do so, I want to take a brief look this morning at this psalm and
and our preparation.
Our preparation began hearing John the Baptist a couple of Sundays ago calling out repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
So that our preparation, our continual preparation is a life of repentance.
Preparing, we come, we are all excited about Christmas and we should because it's a fulfillment of God's promise.
that he may long ago through the prophet Isaiah, as we heard, as he foretold to Joseph in our gospel reading for today.
When we go to the manger, I have a question, though.
What do we look to see?
Of course, the natural answer, and the right answer is we go to see this newborn child, this baby that God has given to us, this God in the flesh.
Wonder of wonders.
But this morning, I would like to direct you to not only look backward, but to look at the present and the future as we look into that major as well.
In my childhood, we played outdoors a lot.
We didn't have computers and video games and cell phones to occupy us.
We went out to Ohio, and we played a lot.
When it was time for supper in our household, it was important because my dad, being a pastor, we had to eat so we could have our family meal and our devotions and clean up and everything.
And then he could go to make calls or visit or go to meetings or whatever.
So it was very precise.
So when mom called us for supper to come in, we had to come in.
And as we came into the back doors, there she was right there by the kitchen.
That's where our back door was.
in the kitchen and I should say, go wash your hands.
And we had to always wash our hands before we ate.
Maybe you remember something like that as well.
Being told often to wash your hands before doing something.
Clean hands are important.
We didn't want to get our, eat our meal with 30 hands and make the house dirty and all of that as well.
We know that the importance of cleanliness is well clean hands.
If I'm going to, in the hospital to have a surgery, I'm so glad that the nurses and doctors take that time that they put in to scrub up and to make sure that their hands are very clean and then they put on sterile gloves on top of it.
Cleanliness is important.
And especially if we were going over to somebody's house, we wanted to make sure that, okay, everything was clean and, yep, check the hands there, clean too.
Our Psalm talks a little bit about clean hands.
Just a brief background on this Psalm.
It probably was written when the ark that had been captured by the Philistines in a battle and then returned to the Israelites, but not to Jerusalem.
It's now coming and it's being brought into the city of Jerusalem.
And so this hymn of praise was being sung of praise to God for all of his creation, for all that he had done.
And it asks a very important question here.
It says, who shall send the hill of the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place?
Who's worthy to go into up to Mount Zion?
to come into God's presence for the ark represented the presence of God for the people.
It was his physical sign for them that he was with them.
And it gives us the answer.
He who has a clean heart, a clean hands, and a pure heart.
We like to think that we would be worthy to
stand to send to that hill and to stand in this holy place.
But right here is the crux of the problem because we don't have clean hands.
I'm not talking about being physically clean.
We don't have pure hearts.
Our hands are dirty because they carry out the desires of our hearts, the desires that are sinful from our birth.
We don't deserve to ascend the hill and to stand into the presence of God, the Holy One.
And it goes on from there and it asks, again, it says, who is this King of Glories?
You know, it said, lift up your heads.
Lift up your heads.
Give honor to the King.
Give honor.
Be joyful.
God, the King is here.
Who is this king of glory that answers three times?
And it says, Yahweh, the Lord, strong and mighty, Yahweh, mighty in battle, Yahweh.
He is the king of glory.
So when we look at the manger and we see the child Jesus, I want you to see not just a baby, not just the God in the flesh is a little baby, but who he came as, he came as
the king of glory.
It's what the angels announced to the shepherds.
So many of our hymns talk about this event, life-changing, world-changing event of God becoming flesh as the king coming into the world.
He's the one who's worthy to stand in God's presence.
He is the one who is worthy to ascend to that holy hill.
But that's not what he did.
He did something different.
He ascended a hill okay, but it was not a holy hill.
It wasn't Mount Zion that he ascended, he ascended Mount Calvary.
And he did so with the, he who had the cleanest
hands, the perfectly clean hands, and the perfectly pure heart purposely took on the filthiness that is ours.
And he carried it with him up to that hill, not to sit on a throne, but to be nailed on a cross.
And he did this so that you and I
could have clean hands and pure hearts.
And because he rose from the dead and showed his victory over all that sinful, that is ours as the world, we do have clean hands and pure hearts given to us in the waters of baptism as we are washed and cleansed by his blood as we come to his table.
And as we come to his table,
We are coming into the presence of the king to partake of his meal.
Jesus came as the child of Bethlehem and as the king of glory at his birth.
He comes to us continually as the king who wants to rule in our lives now and every day, every moment of every day.
He wants us to be the most important thing to him because we are the most important to him.
And he wants us to look forward to his coming again.
That's why our life is a continual preparation of repentance to God, for we still have dirty hands and impure hearts that have been cleansed and sanctified by him who purified us.
through the cross and the resurrection.
And so we see that King as a baby, we see him as the King of our lives now, and we look forward to his coming again so that we can say with St. John, even so, come Lord Jesus.
So the invitation for us by this psalm and this hymn is to come, come see the baby, come, see the King.
Charles Wesley wrote one of our hymns that we, our advent hymns that we sing.
And I think in verse two, he kind of sums this up for us very well.
He says, second verse, born thy people to deliver, born a child and yet a king, born to reign in us forever.
Now thy gracious kingdom bring,
By thine own eternal spirit rule in all our hearts alone, by thine all sufficient merit, raise us to thy glorious throne.
Rejoice.
The King has come for you, for me, for us all.
Come,
See the King in Jesus' name.
Amen.
May the peace of God which surpasses all understanding keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.